# SOC_MachineIntelligence
#Checkpoint 1
    <P>   We started our project with basic installation and setup of Python and Jupyter notebook in week 1. Then we learnt about the data types, variables, and basic operators in python. Video lectures, as well as reading material, were shared with us. Then we learnt about python data structures like Lists, Tuples, Sets, Dictionary, and Arrays. After that, we started with conditions, loops, Functions, Objects & Classes. We were given a notebook to get familiar with all the basic stuff in python. In short in the first week spent our time getting acquainted with Python to do basic operations.</P>
    <P>   In week 2, we were introduced to an important package NumPy. We learnt about operations on NumPy arrays to ease our work. Then we move on to multi-dimensional NumPy arrays. Then we got brief information about different libraries in NumPy and some useful functions in each library. After that, we learnt about Git and GitHub fundamentals like how to make a repository, Master and new branches, Git’s workflow, remote repository, etc. Then we move on to Neural Networks basics. We learnt about neurons, layers, weights, biases, sigmoid function, and ReLU function. We were introduced to terms like cost function, gradient descent, backpropagation, Supervised learning, binary classification, notations in neural networks Activation Functions, Non-Linear Activations, etc in NN programming. In a nutshell, we learnt NumPy, Git, and GitHub and started with Neural networks in week 2.</P>
     <P>   We combined the week 3 and week 4 content to learn more about Neural networks. We covered concepts that were introduced in week 2 in more detail with keeping the NN programming component in mind. We learnt many concepts in NN programming in continuation to week 2 like backpropagation, weight initialization, deep networks, forward and backward propagation in deep networks, Parameters, Hyperparameters, Dropout Regularization, data augmentation, early stopping, normalizing inputs and it’s needs,Vanishing/Exploding Gradients,Mini Batch Gradient Descent, Softmax Classification Function, etc. After that, we learnt about Tensorflow, Convolution Neural Networks (CNN), and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN). We installed tensorflow2.0 in Anaconda. Then we learn about the basics of CNN and RNN and how they work. In short we continued learning about Neural Networks programming, tensorflow, CNN and RNN in week 3 and week4.</P>  
#Checkpoint 2
      <P>In Fifth week we learnt about Reinforcement Learning. We were given an article to get basic understanding of the topic. The article contained introduction, terminologies, the difference between supervised learning and reinforcement learning, Its characteristics, types of reinforcement learning, models used in RL like Markov Decision Process (MDP), Q Learning , etc. Then we learnt more about Q learning from another blog. In this article we were introduced to Q learning. It consisted of Q learning definition, some terminologies used like Q*(s,a) i.e. expected value,  Temporal Differences(TD), Q[s, a] i.e. current estimate, etc., Q function, Q tables, an example to understand the implementation of Q learning. Also some youtube videos were provided to implement Q-Learning in Vanilla python with an example of warehouse robots in a packaging company. In short we learnt about Q learning in the fifth week. 
      </P>
      <p>In week six we started learning about OpenAI Gym environments. We started with a lunar lander environment from Box2D. We learn about how to import environments and use them. We also read how to create environments from the documentation. It was fun because we were seeing things happen in front of us. In summary, we familiarize ourselves with OpenAI gym environments in this week.
      </p>
      <p>In the Seventh week we started the Deep Learning module. We finally brought artificial neural networks into our discussion of reinforcement learning. We built on the concept of Q-learning and were introduced to the concept of deep Q-learning and deep Q-networks (DQN). We read two blogs to understand what is Q-learning and Deep Q-learning. We studied the implementation using the Pong example from Atari Games.In short we got the understanding of Deep Q-Networks in this week. 
      </p>
      <p>In weeks 8 and 9 we are going to start working on the implementation part of our project. 
      </p>
